Hi, guys, in this lecture, I'm going to cover Amazon, Athena and AWEX Blue, and it's also going
to be followed up by a lab where I give you a brief demonstration of each of these products and they're
together because they are closely related, which you'll see as I go through the lesson.
Now, these are definitely being covered on the exam and a little bit more regularity so that they're
starting to be seen a bit more often now in people's exam papers.
So it could win you a few points.
So it's definitely worth covering.
So Amazon, Athena, is a service which you can use to perform queries on data on S3.
So this is a super simple slide here, because these are the fundamental pieces of knowledge that you
need to know.
So we have an S free data link, so data sitting on is free and then we're able to query that data using
a FENA and the queries I use in the structured query language, Eskew will.
So a bit more background on Athena, it's an interactive query service that makes it easy to analyze
data in S3 using standard escudo.
It's Cervalis and you only pay for the queries that you run.
It also uses a managed data catalog, so this is where Awassa glue comes in and the data catalog stores
information and schemas about the databases and tables that you create, your data that is stored on
S3.
It uses Presto with standard SQL support and supports a variety of data formats, including CSP, Jason
Orch, Apache, PAKHI and Avro.
It's also optimized for fast performance with S3.
So with a Fener there's no need for complex ECL jobs.
So that's extract, transform and load.
Now Excel is normally where you have heterogeneous databases.
Maybe you've got a proprietary database technology.
You need to pull some data out of that so you extract it, you then need to transform it so it's ready
to be loaded into a different type of database.
So ECL jobs are where you do that extract, transform and load now with a feeling you don't need to
do that.
It will actually query the data in place on free and therefore it makes it easy for anyone with standard
S2 Eliscu skills to quickly analyze large scale data sets.
So moving on to Adewusi glue.
So remember, aqueous glue provides that data catalog service.
So you have Amazon.
Athena and Athena can query data using scale that's sitting on a data lake unnecessary.
And then glue is able to also discover that data transform and prepare it for analytics so it can perform
that ECL function.
It will then provide a unified view of the data through the glue data catalog that Fener and other services
can use.
So Glew is a fully managed pay as you go ECL service that automates the steps of data preparation for
analytics.
It will automatically discover and profile data via the data catalog, the glue data catalog and recommends
and generates ECL code to transform source data into the target schema.
So it runs on a fully managed, scalable Apache Spark environment to load your data to its destination.
And you simply point glue to your data stored on Adewusi and glue discovers data and stores the associated
metadata in the glue data catalog.
And then once it's catalog, the data is immediately searchable, credible and available for ECL.
So it works with daylight's on.
That's free, but it also works with data warehouses.
So think about redshift and data stores.
So think about AIDS or perhaps a database that's running on Amazon, etc..
So that's really it for the ferry.
We now have a lab where I'm going to take you into the console and I'm going to show you some simple
tutorials on how to create some configurations in both Rafina and Golu as well.